hello hello hello welcome to b2b
marketing and more with pam dietner with
the fast deployment of vaccinations many
companies are gearing to full opening
that means you have to redo your
marketing plans so what do you need to
pay attention to right is virtual
communication here to stay what about
the content which one should you update
or refresh do you need to look into your
website there are many elements to
consider what i want to talk about today
are five trends that you need to pay
attention to to redo your marketing plan
so let's get started number one
virtual communication is here to stay
but everyone is craving for in in-person
communication do you remember the
struggle and the drama that we all went
through
learning how to use zoom or teams or any
kind of virtual meeting platforms that
we need to know and how to use it what
about the scrambling to move the lamps
around so we can get a better lighting
when we do our virtual meetings until we
broke down and buy multiple different
selfie like to make ourselves look good
remember all the cleaning that we have
to do just to make sure that the
background
clearness will not be shown
in the back of our videos right all that
crap that we have done to make ourselves
look good in front of camera you know
what too much money and
effort
have been invested into it we are not
going to that that go
no way the kids may go back to school
full time but they have the option to do
virtual learning
we still prefer to see our doctors when
we get sick but if we don't want to
drive we can do online visit the virtual
communication infrastructure is set up
somehow we will continue to take
advantage of that
meanwhile even marketing is likely to
have a hybrid model
you can have in-person
conferences and also online conferences
that means you can offer two different
tiers of pricing for your attendees and
it will also impact intransitive content
distribution does that make sense
second things digital customer touch
points continue to search then you will
need to modify your customer journey to
add additional touch points specifically
for digital and enhance your offerings
online and also on your website that
means your digital marketing expenses
should go up not go down even though we
still look into in-person communication
third sales team and all of us will need
to continue to sharpen our virtual
communication skills
such as use camera like what i'm doing
right now to record a greeting or
follow-up
that will increase emotional connection
with your prospect and you can embed
that videos as a part of email follow-up
by talking to many marketers and the
sales professionals i can tell all of us
are done
with covet we are done with the virtual
communications but it's still essential
moving forward and we want to see touch
and feel our colleagues our friends our
agency partners even the ones we are not
particularly fond of
we still want to give them a hug that
means the conferences are also here to
stay the evening industry will have a
strong comeback in the near future if
you are even marketers be ready trend
number two content is still king
during the pandemic the biggest issue
was how fast everything was changing and
that was hard on marketers
a little changing strategy has a huge
impact in terms of the marketing
execution and implementations
a changing strategy may require
different channels to communicate your
message a change of messaging and
creative concept
may require you to redo your whole
campaigns with different copies and
messaging selections for the pay and
social media
if you are marketers who are entrenches
you know exactly what i'm talking about
with all the changes the best way to
communicate is through content i'm
talking about original content
we'll look at explosive growth of tick
tock that's all original content
it's basically everybody is creating the
original content to entertain someone
else in the business world
content plays a critical role in
communicating for example your company
may have a strong stand for certain kind
of social causes right for social
equality and the social justice well you
use content to communicate that if you
have a new protocols and processes that
change for the in store
or even online to keep your customers
safe well you talk about it the best way
to talk about it and communicate content
right if your products your new product
have new features and you have a new
product launches well you want to
showcase your product and show and tell
content ultimately content is still king
the key is post covet
you need to determine which content that
you want to update you want to refresh
and also maybe you need to create
something new how do you determine the
content to update and refresh you need
to figure that out you need to look at
your content and determine that so be
prepared make sure you take time to do
that part of planning if you have any
questions in terms of how to do that let
me know we can talk about it number
three
digital customer experience is your
product once upon a time the surge of
digital usage was mostly a holiday thing
like black friday and cyber monday today
the digital customer experience is
pretty much an everyday thing
it's given
it needs to be easy
for your prospects and the customers to
find information you want to share
you also need to make easy for them to
buy
in a way you should treat your digital
customer experience like your product
not a cost center we tend to spend tons
of money and time to design revise and
test and optimize our products
that mentality also applies to the
digital customer experience design
because
that's the gateway for your customers to
engage with you and that's also the
gateway to create the first impression
the engagement and impression will also
determine whether they will buy from you
or not
you can take a page from the major
e-commerce site such as amazon wayfarer
and ikea
a great example i want to share with you
is cash apps experience of buying and
selling bitcoin the bitcoin has been a
hot commodity but many people still
don't know where to buy them
cash app from square
all right make it easy
for their customers to buy and sell the
bitcoins you can download the cash app
and click on the bitcoin button once you
click on that it will take you directly
to buy and sell screen that you can buy
and sell bitcoin it's that easy that's
exactly what you need to do to make your
digital customer experience like your
own product
you'll get your money back when your
digital customer experience is seamless
and smooth mark my words
number four sales and marketing
alignment
in this fast changing world
both sales and marketing needs to work
together so these are the couple
statements i'm gonna make all right for
both organization
sales please stop complaining about the
quality of leads work together with your
marketing team to define that what is
the clear definition of mql and sql
sales stop complaining about lacking of
content tell your marketing the types of
content you need marketing people go out
of your way to understand your sales
people
i know i know they are not pleasant to
work with sometimes but remember make an
extra effort because they carry
company's revenue on their shoulders i
understand i work for myself i carry
that sales revenue go on my shoulders at
the same time i'm a marketer so i get it
marketing
make it easy for your salespeople to
sort content explain clearly what each
content is tag content with the right
keywords target audience industries or
whatever your sales people search add
those keywords so it's easy for them to
find content
hold each other accountable
so i wrote several blog posts
it's listed in the description you can
check them out i talk about what you can
do as a marketer to better support your
sales team
check them out and let me know what you
think trend number five
workflow and the processes
are your competitive advantage let me
explain that when digital marketing
becomes complicated marketers tend to
get overwhelmed
and the best way to
overcome that
is to understand the nuts and bolts
behind the scenes in other words you
need to understand
how things are done
and how data
moves from one point to another if you
are in email marketing can you document
each step
from the headlined creation sourcing and
selecting content building the template
sending the email out down to tracking
analytics
you probably can describe that verbally
but can you document each process once
you have that documented you and your
team can sit back and determine what
some areas that which is manually done
can be done automatically what some
areas that you can consolidate multiple
steps to make yourself a little bit more
efficient you can also determine where
your platform should play more rows in
terms of each step once you actually
have a process then you can determine
how you can better optimize it
right once you start optimizing it you
can become a whole lot more automatic in
terms of process and you can scale and
on top of it having that kind of
knowledge can actually help you to see
the big picture you can carry a more
strategic conversation with your
management because you have that
in-depth knowledge in terms of what
needs to be done when things get done
you know how each other's will impact
right each element then explain and help
the management understand
so
understanding processes and also steps
will become your asset if you decide to
move up so these are the five trends i'm
sharing with you number one virtual
communication is here to stay
but everyone is craving for in-person
communication
that means your digital marketing budget
still needs to go up but you need to
balance that with events and other
in-person marketing type of budget
number two content is still king try to
understand the type of content that you
need to repurpose refresh and oh
or you need to create new one and have a
budget set aside for that as well and
take time to evaluate your content
number three
customer experience
is your product educate your management
in terms of customer experience is your
product should treat it like your
product not a cost
center
number 4 the sales and marketing
alignment be very proactive talk to your
sales people engage with them yes like i
said i know they are difficult sometimes
but show
your value
number five competitive advantage comes
from your understanding of processes and
the workflow when you understand that
you can carry a strategic conversation
with your management for all of us that
went through the whole 2020 pandemic
nightmare here are some of my biggest
takeaway
almost everything that needed to be done
in person can somehow somehow be done
virtually
with mandatory stay home we find
alternatives to build that human
connection such as virtual happy hours
right virtual family time
as painful as it has been we prove that
we are resilient and nimble and that's
what we need to think and act in
marketing as well if you like the video
please comment and subscribe below love
love love to hear from you if you have
any specific questions hello
pmdinner.com reach out to me anytime
take care
bye